---
title: Passionate Programmer
date: 2013-02-01 13:19 -07:00
tags:
---



Reading through the first three sections of Passionate Programmer, I was struck by how applicable some of the advice would have been at my last job.  As a mutual fund accountant, you are assigned a block of work each day that must be completed within a given time frame.  For the most part, you can not begin early, because you’re work is dependant on information that comes in at certain times of the day, and failing to complete your work at best adds stress to your already overworked supervisors; at worst, it could cost the company more than you make in a year.
While I think that most of the advice Chad gives in his book could have been applied to my last job, the three chapters that really stood out were “say no”, “don’t panic”, and “how good a job can i do today”.  

The time I spent as a mutual fund accountant was during a period of incredible growth for my company.  They were trying to double the size of my department over a two year period, which, for the most part, was a good thing.  It meant that the quality of our work was of such a high caliber that we were being trusted with more work, lots more.  On the downside, however, it meant individuals dealing with the extra work that was a result of the lag in hiring/training new employees.

During this period, everyone was doing more than they were used to.  Taking on extra work, and pushing your limits was just part of the process, and we all knew that and were being compensated accordingly.  Now, doing more than usual and pushing limits aside, having a solid understanding of what was possible was crucial.  Cases would arise where extra work would manifest itself through errors (on our end or our clients end), and our supervisors would have to assign that work to someone on our team.  In these situations, knowing how and when to “say no” would be the difference between everyone meeting their deadline, and no one meeting their deadline.  If you agree to take on that extra work, the team is counting on you to finish that extra work.  Doing only part of it, or not getting to it at all forces someone else to step in and take it over, which is always more difficult than just doing it from the start.

“Don’t panic” was something that I remember telling myself on many occasions.  When you are plugging in the totals, and calculating the exchange rates for hundreds of transactions, single digit typos do occur.  Unfortunately, these errors are usually difficult to spot, and almost always show up after a substantial amount of time has been spent on work that rests on these erroneous numbers.  Remembering the time constraints that I already described, I want you to try and imagine the horror that is the realization that not only did you waste the time spent using the wrong numbers, but that you have to go back and find the error and fix it.  Now, the time wasted is fixed, but the ability to keep a level head in this situation could be the difference between spending ten minutes fixing the problem and spending an hour making it worse.

The work that I did at my last job was not fun.  I imagine that it would be difficult to find a mutual fund accountant who could honestly say they love their job.  The position is an entry level stepping stone for a career in finance or accounting, and usually people aren’t mutual fund accountants for more than a few years before moving on.  Reading Chad’s tips for turning mundane work into something to get excited about brought back memories of racing the clock to see how many trades I could book in ten minutes, or how fast I could churn out my morning cash sheets.  By adding self imposed challenges, I was able to keep myself engaged and get my work done more quickly.