source/2013-02-10-Passionate-Programmer-Review.html.markdown, before:

---
title: Passionate Programmer Final Review
date: 2013-02-10 13:19 -07:00
---


The IT industry is constantly changing.  Technologies that are new today quickly become outdated and in order to survive one must adapt and continuously learn the "next" big thing.  In the Passionate Programmer, Chad is constantly stressing how important it is to be on the "bleeding edge" of technology.  He suggests that one must never become too comfortable with where they're at and that survival means being constantly in motion.

While this book is geared towards professionals in the IT industry, some of the more general, organizational tips apply nicely to life as a student.  Specifically, "On The Shoulders of Giants", and "How Good a Job Can I Do Today?" hold simple and fundamental wisdom which could be applied to learning just about anything.  Throughout this course, I plan on seeking out projects, written by professionals, which closely parallel the work we're doing.  Certain tips and secrets, are difficult to come by without seeing them in action.  These, professionally-developed projects, could act as sort of a standard, or answer key by which I could judge my own work.  

That said, as a newbie to programming, some of these tips may be well over my head and/or outside the scope of this course.  With that comes the need to enjoy the process of constructing a solid base of fundamentals.  Challenging yourself to perfect the most mundane of operations will lead to the ability to understand and implement the more sophisticated techniques of the pros.

It seemed to me that some of the work place related issues that Chad brought up, seemed to be related to the size of the company.  The idea of presence would be much easier to manage in a small company rather than a global corperation.

One of the biggest messages in this book that I haven't been able to fully implement is to stay on top of industry trends, and have some idea what I think the technology of tomorrow might be.  This is due mainly to the fact that I am still learning the basics, and do not have an abundance of time that I can easily dedicate to additional research.  I would imagine that as my base of knowledge expands, and more and more of the fundamentals become second nature, I will be able to effectively look a bit further down the road and begin preparing my skill set to thrive in that future environment.

Commit message:

small clean ups on all posts

source/2013-02-10-Passionate-Programmer-Review.html.markdown, after:

---
title: Passionate Programmer Final Review
date: 2013-02-10 13:19 -07:00
---


The IT industry is constantly changing.  Technologies that are new today quickly become outdated and in order to survive one must adapt and continuously learn the "next" big thing.  In the Passionate Programmer, Chad is constantly stressing how important it is to be on the "bleeding edge" of technology.  He suggests that one must never become too comfortable with where they're at and that survival means actively charting out and charging down the path you think will leave you best situated in the environment of tomorrow.

While this book is geared towards professionals in the IT industry, some of the more general, organizational tips apply nicely to life as a student.  Specifically, "On The Shoulders of Giants", and "How Good a Job Can I Do Today?" hold simple and fundamental wisdoms that can be applied to learning just about anything.  Throughout this course, I plan on seeking out projects, written by professionals, which closely parallel the work we're doing.  Certain tips and secrets, are difficult to come by without seeing them in action.  These, professionally-developed projects, could act as sort of a standard, or answer key by which I could judge my own work.  

That said, as a newbie to programming, some of these tips may be well over my head and/or outside the scope of this course.  With that comes the need to enjoy the process of constructing a solid base of fundamentals.  Challenging yourself to perfect the most mundane of operations will lead to the ability to understand and implement the more sophisticated techniques of the pros.

One of the biggest messages in this book that I haven't been able to fully implement is to stay on top of industry trends, and have some idea what I think the technology of tomorrow might be.  This is due mainly to the fact that I am still learning the basics, and do not have an abundance of time that I can easily dedicate to additional research.  I would imagine that as my base of knowledge expands, and more and more of the fundamentals become second nature, I will be able to effectively look a bit further down the road and begin preparing my skill set to thrive in a future environment.
