---
title: Week 5- Retrospective
date: 2013-03-1 13:19 -07:00
---


So ends the fifth week of this school of g's.  We are currently one week (actually 2 full days) into our first project that lies in the realm of web development, and so far the somewhat daunting task of mastering the languages necessary for interacting with our database and building a user interface, has not diminished my excitement.  The largest obstacle at this point has been getting used to interacting with data that is not immediatly visible in the project's file structure.  The SQL language, Sequel's 'simplification' of that language, and the two different databases we were introduced to this week definitely clouded my idea of what our data is and where it is located; this conceptual jump has been difficult to make with the added responsibility of comming up with a project stragegy that is largely dependent on these concepts.

If I do one thing better this in comming month than I did in the last, I hope I can manage to prioritize my responsibilities more effectively.  I spent the first day of this project researching the database we will be required to have set up by the end, to get a deeper understanding of how it worked so that I would be able to design the rest of the project in a way that made the most effecient use of it.  My logic for this was simple: the data drives the app and the system that manages the data determines that app's speed and quality.  I looked at the database as the foundation for the project and allocated my time accordingly, only to find out the next day in class that, while the database is a crucial element of the system, it is only one element, and that the others are at least as important.

I am sure that my ability to prioritize will improve with the experience of working with these elements (which are new at the moment) and knowing their relative levels of importance.  Until that time when I have sufficient experience under my belt, and the associated perspective of a Master Code-Warrior, I will do my best to stay flexible when confronted with a problem that is taking substantial time and/or effort.  I will stop and think about whether or not it is completely essential that the issue be resolved at that time; if it isn't essential, I'll move on to something else, but if it is, I'll do a better job of comming at the problem from a new direction and trying new strategies rather than just trying the same strategy...harder.
