---
title: Retrospective
date: 2013-04-19 13:19 -07:00
---

So, the Son of Store Engine projects failed to meet expectations.  It appears that among other things, we, as a class, failed to decide on what the important features were and to focus on them.  In the 20+ years I spent as a student, I can honestly say that I have never had an assignment where completely failing to complete something was better than doing as much of it as possible.  In my mind, not doing a story altogether was never an option.  We had a concrete list of features we needed to create, and we allocated time to each of those features accordingly; make something work, and move on.  It never occurred to me that it would have been better to completely write off chunks of the project and to spend more time on making the things that we did write professional, and not just functional.

I understand Jeff's analogy, that having a large pile of crap is never preferable to a smaller one...now.  I guess I was still in student mode, and figured that it was best to at least touch as much as possible, and that quality would just come with practice.  It appears, however, that the bar has been raised.  I will attack the next project with significantly higher standards, and even without having seen it, seriously doubt I will finish.

Now, having said all that, I probably learned more from this project than I have from any other.  I definitely feel like my grasp on rails and how all the different pieces work together is significantly stronger having put as many hours in as we did.  My team did a good job of splitting the work up and sticking to what we agreed on doing.  We had no major merge conflicts, and never wasted any time by independently working on the same feature.  One thing that I know would have helped us in the long run, even though it never ended up being a major problem, was testing.  I know that I personally spent a lot of time running through different scenarios, manually testing the functionality of some features, that a handful of tests could have kept an eye on in a fraction of the time.

In terms of time management, it was pretty much work as much as we could all the time.  I ended up having to neglect the reading and preparation for my lightning talk because of the amount of time spent on the project.  I don't feel like we were wasting any time while we worked so it is hard to say that this was an error, but maybe someday I'll have a little more time to allocate to other areas?

It is definitely a little weird that we are already half way through the program.  On one hand, its kind of hard trying to remember how little I knew about code a few months back given how ingrained it is becoming.  On the other hand, it feels like just yesterday that we were all sitting around in the secondary classroom working on our improve skills.
